---
layout: post
title: "OK, I want to be a programmer, but what skills should I have?"
date: 2020-01-01 00:00:00 -0400
background: "/img/background.jpg"
categories: pensamentos
---

# Welcome

**You**  may be one who wants to start learning to program and maybe you are  asking yourself if you have competent skills to build software. Today,  it is very common to see many online courses and colleges to work with  software development. Although, just a few of them really make explicit  what it is really required to become a developer.

All  skills that I will mention here, you not necessarily need to have, you  can develop the skills as you get learning, as I have done in my  college. As soon as I started college, I did not exactly have all  prerequisites to learn to program, so I failed myself until I realize  that I would need these skills to learn programming. Right to the point,  what skills should we have?

## Solve  problems

 Of course, solve problems. It’s so obvious. In the end,  software is nothing more than a heap of running steps created by the  programmer. In this way, every programmer solves logic problems, since  he must make clear the entire step-by-step instructions for a machine.  And for this reason, it is not uncommon to meet programmers who loved to  solve logic problems in video games, newspapers puzzles, and so on.  It’s not for nothing that many developers entered the area because they  had a passion for playing games. And playing is intrinsically linked to  solving (logic) problems. When I was 12 to 13 years old, I love to  fiddle with an event programming system to create (and play) RPG games,  called RPG Maker. Me and a friend, we’ve probably become programmers  because of RPG Maker.

## Independent  Investigator. 
When I was younger, I used to like changing my HDs,  re-recording PS2 and running emulated games. I used tried to do these  things until they get working or go to a very bad state until nothing  else could be done. Unfortunately (or not), I did not was a good  independent investigator. I usually used to search people to help me  instead of really going after something alone, I used to try to find out  the solutions but I also used to give up easily. Only at the end of the  college, I learned to go beyond the problems independently.

## Self-taught. 

This ability is directly related to the previous one, but they are not  the same things. Every programmer has to learn new things throughout  life, new software paradigms, new design patterns, new languages, and  etc. Programming concepts change according to the internet time, that  is, it is very fast. A few years go by and something is out of date. To  program, it is necessary to be constantly updated.

## Mathematical  enthusiast. 

This here is a bit controversial. Because this is not true  in all cases, but for the machine learning area, for instance, it is  indispensable. For web development area not so much. However, I believe  that at least some math basic concepts you should have to know, such as  functions, sets, modules, distance, etc. If it does not need  essentially, at least it helps to solve more computing problems

## The  constructor. 

Programmers who develop software, build software. You need  to define an architecture and understand how the software modules will  interact. In some countries software developers are also called software  engineers, this is because, every developer must build, in an  architecturally, a software. It is necessary to design it.

I  hope this guide will help direct your focus if you want to start a  development course. I believe that everyone should learn to program,  even if it was something basic, I think indirectly makes us better  problem solvers (whether software or not).


Thank you see you later.

Kevin Takano, a bachelor in computer science.
